As someone who writes for self-gratification, blogging networks and the state of today's blogs in general, have always annoyed me. So much so that I have gone out of my way to stop reading *many* of them. Books are pretty much all I read these days.

The first ever blogging network that I came across was [9rules][9r]. At that time, I didn't understand what the point of grouping up blogs into a "network" was. Sure, it had the potential to get you more readers, and once you were a part of a network, all the "qualities" that it stood for were somehow automatically imbibed into your blog as well. But then what? It wasn't making you a better writer or improving your writing. It wasn't telling us something we didn't already know; just a different way of looking at things we already knew. And that's what every blog eventually becomes, even if it wasn't how it started out: an mess of opinions about or links to existing stuff. Rare is the blog that tells us something new. Like if Phileas Fogg ever wrote one, that would be truly something worth reading and looking forward to.

[9r]: http://9rules.com/

Which is why [Svbtle][dc] interests me. Apart from being the hardest name to type that I've come across in a while, it's the [benefits that come along with it][tc]:

> I plan to offer copy-editing and other benefits to help improve the writing of members on the Network, for example.

It's a network that looks like it's actually going to actively *do something* for its writers rather than just give them more viewers and the [occasional plug from Curtis himself][dc2]. Of course, how it plays out in the next few months will be interesting because those "benefits" will be hard to scale as more writers join up. Although knowing Curtis, I doubt there will be too many to begin with. I haven't signed up for an invite because I know I won't get in [^1]. That and the fact that I don't want to be on the clock or feel responsible for writing — I like the freedom to be lethargic, to passively observe the daily workings of the world without feeling the need to say something about it at every step of the way [^2]. 

[dc]: http://dcurt.is/codename-svbtle
[dc2]: https://twitter.com/dcurtis/status/186897703198928898
[tc]: http://techcrunch.com/2012/03/24/forget-todays-drama-dustin-curtis-svbtle-is-trying-to-push-blogging-forward/

[^1]: And I found an engine I can tweak and play around with myself. I just hate how I find these things mere weeks away from my exams every single time.
[^2]: Look Maw! I'm all grown up!
