Anyone who has ever tried to build their brand from scratch knows this. It is harder when you're working in a silo; in this case it's your own website hosted on your independent rented server and domain name. Establishing credibility is one of the hardest things you can do, which is why people choose social media. Credibility takes care of itself when something comes your way through someone you know — like a retweeted tweet or a reblogged Tumblr post. It's a very limited number of people who direct the majority of people to content on the Internet. These people wouldn't know that content existed if it wasn't sent their way via Facebook or a similar medium.

That's why it's hard when you work off of your own domain and website; anything that isn't inherently social. You have the control you get from owning it, but you also have the headache of getting the word out there. It's like setting up your own shop rather than selling your stuff through a well known retail chain.

Most people are okay with peppering their content pages with social media links (those ugly retweet and like buttons), but it's tough for the fussier people amongst us. It's not about "everybody has to start from scratch" when the "scratch" isn't good enough. How does one make oneself more visible? Is it better social media buttons? Or discovery-oriented websites like Reddit? Or specialised content networks like Svbtle? I don't know. This is one of those things where continuing to do good work on its own isn't enough. You also have actively draw attention to it.

This is especially relevant today when we have people breaking away from the traditional artist-publisher models to one where they control their product right from its creation down to how it gets to you. Each one of them is trying to build his or her brand. The easiest way is to jump on some social media channel and use that to interact with others. The problem with that is credibility of a different kind. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't buy anything from someone who just has a Twitter profile. Which is why I think ideas like [Gum Road][gr] — while being great — solve just a part of the problem and aren't that useful.

[gr]: https://gumroad.com/

It feels like everybody is solving the problem in parts. One might be handling the identity, while the other handles the distribution. A third might handle analytics [^1]. But nobody gives you the whole package; not yet at least. And I think there's definitely something here that's ripe for picking.

[^1]: But no service handles marketing for you. You're kind of on your own with that one. That's because marketing is the hardest part of the puzzle. Sure, you can hire individual people to do it for you, but there is no general formula that can be used to build a service that you can plug into your website lets you get your work easily out there. Discovery is very, very hard.