If you've ever created something with your own ideas and effort, you know what it feels like to have your work criticised. Whether it be from people you know, or people you don't. Whether they are people you respect or people who crawled out of their basements, any criticism is hard to hear. You could build your resistances to criticism over the years, but no matter how much you try, that first critic is always met with an internal monologue saying "It's okay. He doesn't understand me/this."

The truth is, all creations suck.

Everything you or anyone else ever made or used, sucks. Twitter sucks because its API has superfluous restrictions. Facebook sucks because it puts us back in high school, now with ad-stickers on our foreheads, the walls, behind doors, and in general everywhere our and everyone else's eyes can see. Apple sucks because their products are more expensive and sometimes restricted. That car you drive sucks because fuel for it burns a hole in your pocket everytime you take it out. The public bus sucks because it stops 20 minutes away from your house and you need to walk to get there. Your house sucks because its walls can't be changed in the future if you should want to without significant costs. The air you breathe sucks because it's full of dust and smoke. The water you drink sucks because it's not sweet.

#### The World's Problems Haven't Increased. Just Our Opinions About Them.

Designers have their work scrutinised from the second it begins to take any form of meaning. From web applications to buildings, cars to furniture; how something looks and/or feels has always the first thing at the receiving end of criticism. And that criticism comes not only from peers, but from any person that has the ability to observe it (doesn't mean they've had the chance to observe it before criticising it). The same can't be said about other professions. Almost all other creations, until now, have only needed to hold up to the scrutiny from and validation of its peers. But as more and more enters the domain of mainstream public eye, they are being subject to the same levels of scrutiny and criticism as designs.

To take example from the tech industry, web applications are criticised as being slow. Devices are criticised as being low on specifications and features. Video games are criticised as being shallow or short. These weren't things that used to matter, but as our expectations rise, now they do. And the people that make these things don't know how to deal with it because they've never been subject to this kind of criticism. Best case scenario is people take it in their stride and churn out something better. Worst case is they break down and give up. Reality case is somewhere in the middle, but every day there are more and more people who create coming out and hitting back at people who criticise. It's almost like they think it's going to make a difference.

As a designer, all I can say is that I understand your pain. I've had my peaks where I felt like I could do no wrong, and I've had my troughs where I almost gave up designing altogether[^1]. The criticism doesn't get better, but your resistance to it will. Eventually you will learn to differentiate between the rational and irrational criticism, even though most of it looks irrational at this point. All you can do is to suck and keep doing what you do best: create.

[^1]: To be honest, I still don't design for others. I only design for myself and my projects. That's *one* way of shrugging off criticism.